### Intro:
U-Net is a fully-convolutional network developed for biomedical image segmentation. The U- Net features a ”contracting path” that mixes convolutions and max-pooling to shrink the height and width dimensions while increasing the channel dimension, followed by an ”expansion path” that uses upsampling to undo the contractions while reducing channels. Skip connections link the contraction and expansion paths to share high-resolution details.
We will train a U-Net like network using 2D images taken from the Brain Tumor Segmentation (BraTS) 2021 challenge. This dataset contains magnetic resonance images of patients diagnosed with glioma brain tumors. For each patient we provide two images: 1. A T1 contrast image (T1) and 2. A T2-weighted-Fluid-Attenuated Inversion Recovery (T2) image. The T1 image is used to identify areas of malignant tumor where the blood-brain barrier is compromised. Patients receive an injection of a paramagnetic contrast enhancement agent that appears very bright when imaged, and this fluid leaks from blood vessels in the malignant tumor to highlight tumor regions. Abnormal signals on the T2 image extend beyond the tumor boundary and can indicate swelling, response of the brain to invading tumor, or injury from radiation treatment.

### Data:
The data archive contains train, validation, and test folders containing images from 1000, 126, and 125 paatients respectively. Each patient has a one T1 image, one T2 image, and a ground-truth mask image. The T1 and T2 images are grayscale 8-bit images with range [0, 255]. The mask image is a grayscale image where a value of 0 indicates background, a value of 1 indicates T2 abnormal signal, and a value of 2 indicates T2 abnormal signal.
The data archive also contains a JSON file describing the normalization parameters for the T1 and T2 channels (mean, variance). A second JSON file contains the counts of the background, T1 abnormal, and T2 abnormal pixels in the entire dataset to be used for weighting classes during training.
